hey i'm derek it's me derek and welcome
to stop skeletons and fighting 2019
was supposed to be a huge year for doom
and i was excited
who wouldn't be excited doom's the
greatest thing ever made it's the
brooklyn bridge
sliced bread uh the pyramids doom
that's it those that's the four things
but then doom eternal got delayed and
with it the doom 64 remaster got delayed
as well
and then the classic doom ports released
to celebrate the 25th anniversary of
doom 2
had a ton of issues bethesda hasn't
exactly had the best track record the
last few years and i was worried they
were mismanaging
another classic franchise but you know
what i should have had more faith in
doom welcome again to punching weight
where we celebrate the weird ambitious
and unnecessary and it's time again
to return to the topic that basically
burped this whole show
doom console ports but first this video
is brought to you in part by honey
honey lets you make sure you get the
best deals while you're shopping from
home
it's an online shopping tool that helps
you find promo codes
and apply them to your cart just wait a
few seconds boom look at that
look at that price drop that's a spicy
pizza pie i'm a fiend for deals i love
bargains i love saving money i built a
whole channel around it okay check us
out hold up this is doom for the 32x
i love this game i bought this game as a
kid but i didn't buy it because it was
the best option
it's not it was cheap and that was all
those available and i still put like 100
hours into this game if i had something
like honey back then maybe
i could have found a better deal i
didn't have to live like that and with
honey you don't have to live like that
anymore
honey has saved its 17 million members
over two billion dollars and it doesn't
cost anything to use
and installs just two clicks get honey
at joinhoney.com
ssf that's join honey.com ssf start
saving some money
right now thanks to honey for sponsoring
this part of the video
doom 64 was an anomaly even in its time
it was 1997
the world didn't need another console
port of doom
so instead we got a reimagining but like
in n64
exclusive reimagining that's just wildly
unnecessary and
would be enough to earn it the punching
weight seal of approval on its own
but on top of that though doom 64 is a
masterpiece i even made a video about it
years ago in another life doom 64
featured a fancier engine that gave way
to
more complex level design than
traditional doom completely redesigned
enemies that were
mostly pretty amazing one of the most
amazing and unsettling soundtracks
of all time
it was a brand new campaign that was
extremely atmospheric
dark moody and these things combined to
make an incredible and strikingly unique
doom experience
one that was much more of a horror game
there they are
in that way the quake inspiration is
obvious it's the closest doom had ever
gotten to quake's
horroriness though unfortunately because
it wasn't quake it was left
under appreciated in its time and some
people were pretty harsh like
damn jeff gerson you're killing me here
maybe doom fatigue was setting in and
people were ready to move on
still it's interesting considering that
doom 3 the next
mainline doom game went full on
atmospheric horror
instead of sticking with the classic
style fast-paced run and gun doom not to
mention
based on the story in doom 16 doom 64 is
technically more canon than doom 3. i
think
so the story of doom 64 is i don't
care i ain't here for the story man i
want the atmosphere and i want
blowing stuff up with guns it's simple
kind of a problem i have with doomy
turtle
but still seeing this re-release
alongside doom eternal
is just so amazing i mean it took a
while but 264 finally got its due and i
personally couldn't be happier listen i
love dumb stuff
but even i cannot believe that in the
year 2020
there is a game sitting on my sony
playstation 4 called
doom 64. i mean it's fun to snark at the
gamecube copy of resident evil 4 because
it says only on gamecube
or the recent announcement that horizon
zero dawn is no longer only on
playstation but that a game called doom
is now available on multiple systems
it's like if smash bros for the 3ds was
suddenly ported to the xbox one
according to a developer at night dive
who visited one of my
live streams of doom 64 they did
consider changing the name for the
stream master but thankfully
bad taste prevailed as a dev on my
stream also pointed out
can't copyright a number i think you can
try people copyright
all the time i felt nintendo absolutely
would have tried to copyright the number
64.
and a judge was like get out of my
office get out of here no
and because of that now sitting on my
sony playstation 4
is a game called doom 64. here's hoping
the next game is called
new super doom lan 3d now available on
your xbox
doom 64 remaster uses the same kex
engine that powered night dives turok
and turok 2 remasters
and it shows the lead developer of the
kex engine and this remastered was
samuel villarreal i'm probably saying
that wrong aka
kaiser who created the doom 64 ex pc fan
port now i don't know a damn thing about
game development much less game
remastering but i do know this
night dive absolutely killed it here i'm
going to come right out and say it
doom 64 remaster is one of the greatest
remasters of
all time apparently you can run this
game at like 4k with a thousand frames
per second
and this is a commercial product you
can't top that
just in terms of balancing the respect
for the original
with updating the game it's seriously
unmatched in my book
they only fixed what they needed to and
don't get it twisted
the original doom 64 was not a game
without flaws
the biggest issue was that it was way
too dark like it's supposed to be a dark
and moody game but
a black screen is not moody if you can't
see nothing there's no mood right
it features a brightness option but i've
never played the original without maxing
that thing all the way to the top and
then even then it's still
borderline unplayable without adjusting
your tv in my original video i spent
hours color correcting the footage it
was a nightmare in this remaster
this is no longer an issue right out of
the box the game is visible without
sacrificing
any of the atmosphere but if you still
need adjustments there are now
two brightness options even with them
both cranked all the way up the colors
do not look washed out
and the spooky atmosphere is still
intact to be honest
night dive could have wrapped things up
right there and i'd still be singing the
praises of this remaster
but they didn't stop the original had
complete controller customization a rare
thing for an n64 shooter and so does
this remaster
now i think the original doom 64
controls just fine and i will defend the
n64 controller
till the day i die to a point because
even i can't argue that doom 64 plays
way better
on a dualshock 4 or a switch pro
actually be hectic
without sheets without turtling in the
corner by the door i did it mom
i'm a real gamer now this game just
controls like a dream
auto run is also a welcome addition my
wrist appreciated that
it has rumble support now for the record
doom 64
actually predated the rumble pack fun
fact apparently all the rumble industry
master
is modeled off of the switch's hd rumble
but night dive really went the extra
mile
and included the option for motion
controls for ps4 and switch
something nobody asked for i'm sure but
man having that little extra precision
is really nice it shows that they really
put everything they could
into this remaster and yes we asked them
about ring fit support
and they said they needed to get some
dang ring cons first so bethesda get
this in ring cons let's go i want doom
exorcize like i'm shooting demons with
my rocket launcher or
some chainsaw demons and i'm getting
buffed
bethesda called me i know you can make
it happen your ceo can get like a
billion dollar bonus but you can't get
you can't get a studio a couple ring
cons i call both
password saves are still here i tested
my old n64 passwords and they worked
another welcome change are
mid-level saves and quick saves doom
64's levels feature their share of evil
traps some
literally right before the exit if
you're a stickler for tradition
you don't have to use them but it's nice
to have the option but there is
airing on the side of tradition for
example lost souls
are still way op making pain elementals
this game's most dangerous enemy
this is one thing that i would have
changed but it's minor in the grand
scheme of things
they didn't change other aspects of the
gameplay either like things that were
cut from the original due to cart
limitations so
night dive added no chain gunners no
revenants no arch vial
also no looking no jumping and no
multiplayer
doom 64 ex has a co-op mode and i'm
hoping hard
that night dive will eventually patch
that in i mean multiplayer
is listed as a feature on the ps4 page
for some reason
stranger things have happened right like
a dream even without multiplayer night
dive went above and beyond
with the biggest addition of all an
all-new campaign
for this release which also doubles as a
little bow that officially ties this
game
into doom 16. the lost levels is not
like
a set of levels that appeared on doki
doki doom 64 in japan this is a
brand new campaign made for this
remaster now when i first heard news
about this
i was actually a little worried dew 64's
levels have a very distinct
style they're cramped and dense probably
due to the limitations of the hardware
but honestly
i'll take an endless barrage of castles
over the sprawling levels of downtown
and factory
that's just my preference and the lost
levels really do keep that vibe going
these levels are not just challenging
and yet
they are challenging but they're also
balanced
and well-made fitting with the style of
doom 64.
unfortunately you have to complete the
campaign to unlock them it's not just
available from the start
though level passwords are there if you
are impatient but
it's only six maps which i devoured on
watch me die
i think it says a lot that i was
disappointed that there wasn't
more and it's also possible to soft lock
the game on the second level if you
leave
this room without grabbing the red key
first there's no way to progress
maybe i'm the only [__] in the world
who did this but it does seem like an
oversight still
there's tons of room for dlc here
especially
with people on staff who are this good
at making new levels
there was a nintendo power preview from
back in the day that showed off
an egyptian motif eh eh hey
huh maybe a fanboy can dream but even if
bethesda
would deem something like this
financially viable i'm sure night dive
is super busy with
shadow man and other top secret projects
when we cover doom ports on punching way
it's usually about how they struggle so
hard
to be good against all odds or about how
they're just straight up bad but man i
got almost nothing bad to say about doom
64 remastered i played both the ps4 and
switch versions
it's absolutely amazing double thumbs up
stamp of approval
highest possible recommendation buy it
it's five bucks buy it buy it twice
if you consider yourself a doom fan but
you have never played doom 64
there are absolutely no excuses anymore
this is a game of the year contender for
me i wish to have more thumbs so i'll
give this game
four thumbs up but of course doom 64 is
not the only classic doom available
right now
classic doom and doom 2 are amazing
faithful ports of the series
loaded with content and special features
or at least
now they are when they launched in 2019
when we talked about them then
uh not so much i mean sure beyond the
bethesda.net thing
most of these issues were only things
hardcore fans would notice but you know
you kind of invited that on yourself
when you surprise announced it at
quakecon
for the 25th anniversary of doom 2.
what'd you expect
there's a part of me that speculates
they've rushed these ports because
bethesda wanted these out the door
before doom eternal came out since you
can unlock them in there
but of course this was less of a factor
once eternal got delayed
i don't know anything anyway i am
pleased to announce that almost
everything has been fixed the
bethesda.net requirement was patched out
a few weeks after launch though i feel
like they were dragging their feet a bit
on that
how are you gonna do though i mean
bethesda go in bethesda shortly after a
video dropped they fixed the music
and the lighting issues and they have
continued to support the game there's
now a level select
and cheats and they have released lots
of extra campaigns
john romero's sigil is in doom 1 and
nerves no rest for the living is in doom
and both doom 1 and 2 got final doom aka
plutonium experiment and tnt evolution
and other fan made campaigns like no end
in sight and double impact
and that's just as we're filming right
now there's probably more coming
to platforms that need more doom that
means that
only these sewer and betray levels are
still exclusive to the xbox
doom 3 but that that is all that is
currently m.i.a it's kind of incredible
all these extra campaigns are mere megs
which is
great for small space on the switch but
there is one huge problem here
these extra campaigns are not free sure
they don't
cost any money but a bethesda.net login
is required to access the download page
and i think it sucks that you had to
exchange your data in order to play
these releases and
yes i realized the irony of complaining
about this as a youtuber please
subscribe to appease my google overlords
etc
it's not as bad as requiring login just
to play a game you purchased with money
but
these extra campaigns are available for
free on the mock community
i'll let you decide if that's a deal
breaker these doom and doom 2 ports are
still missing a few things
like online multiplayer and controller
customization
though if you're playing these games on
the switch every game technically has
controller customization now
thanks to a brand new system update i
still can't forgive bethesda and id
for botching these on release and still
forcing bethesda net
on people is a problem but here in 2020
they have made good on representing
classic doom
having this much portable doom is a
beautiful beautiful thing and at this
point
i'm just hoping this fantastic port
train keeps chugging
for that doom eternal switch port i'm
really i'm really looking forward to
that
it's gonna be a great port or terrible
port by the way i'm gonna really really
enjoy it yeah looking forward to it yes
of course this ain't the last time
punching weight is gonna talk
doom uh and it's also not the first time
we talk about it either
if you want more uncle derek talking
about doom let me know or hey if it's
time to jump back into
quake or duke or half-life again let me
know in the comments below
stop skeletons of fighting is a
patreon-supported show and would not be
possible
without the support of every name you
see here of course if you've made it
this far in the video you've already
done
so much thank you so much for watching
and supporting uh man tell a friend
hit the bell hit subscribe you know the
deal
just stay tuned and we'll see you again
real soon